Major update: scrollbar role (#13245)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/accessibility/aria/roles/scrollbar_role/index.md

  - roles
  - Reference
  - ARIA roles
  - scrollbar
---

A `scrollbar` is a graphical object that controls the scrolling of content within a viewing area.

## Description

A `scrollbar` is a range that controls what part of a viewport's content is currently visible in the viewport‘s frame; whether the viewport is a full browser size, an iframe, or any element's [block formatting context](/en-US/docs/Web/Guide/CSS/Block_formatting_context). 

### What is scroll bar

> Many applications provide native scroll bars when the content area is larger than the application window. Scrollbars generally applear on the right or bottom, or both, of the viewing area. The native scroll bars appear as thin rectangular track areas the length of the viewport it controls with a thumb, or scroller, that can be dragged along a track to move the associated content within it's own viewport. Some scrollbars have arrows at each end end of the track.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many applications provide native scroll bars when the content area is larger than the application window. Scrollbars generally appear on the right or bottom of the viewing area. Native scroll bars appear as thin rectangular track areas the length of the viewport it controls with a piece of UI called a thumb or scroller that can be dragged along a track to move the associated content within the viewport. Some scrollbars have arrows at each end end of the track that allow scrolling the viewport a short set distance when activated.
```

Take this document as an example: if the viewport is the full browser window and the content is taller than the viewport, in most browsers the scroll bar on the right edge of the window represents the overall length of the page and the scroll thumb represents the portion of the page content that is currently in the viewport. 

Scroll bars may also appear on viewports that are sub-sections of the full browser window. Continuing with this content as our example, if this content is embedded in an {{HTMLElement('iframe')}} or {{HTMLElement('object')}}, the native vertical scroll bar will be the height of the frame. A scroll bar generally is the length of the viewport, but isn't required to be.

> If you aren't currently seeing a scroll bar, it may be because your browser only displays the scroll bar when scrolling or only when an element's content is too big to fit in its block formatting context. Depending on the browser, scroll bars can be made to be visible even when the content fits in the viewport when no scrolling is necessary or even possible. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you aren't currently seeing a scroll bar, it may be because your browser only displays the scroll bar when scrolling or only when an element's content is too big to fit in its block formatting context. Depending on the browser and operating system, scroll bars can be made to be visible even when the content fits in the viewport when no scrolling is necessary or even possible. 
```

### ARIA `scrollbar`

> It is always best to use native scroll bars. You can use the CSS {{CSSXref('overflow')}} property to ensure the appearance of scroll bars. A [CSS scrollbar specification](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scrollbars/) is being worked developed. Some browsers allow [styling scroll bars via prefixed pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::-webkit-scrollbar). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is always best to use native scroll bars. You can use the CSS {{CSSXref('overflow')}} property to ensure the appearance of native scroll bars. A [CSS scrollbar specification](https://drafts.csswg.org/css-scrollbars/) is being worked developed. Some browsers allow [styling scroll bars via prefixed pseudo-elements](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/::-webkit-scrollbar). 
```

Because native scroll bar styling has historically been limited, you may come across a scrollbar implemented in JavaScript that you need to support and make fully accessible.  For this, you can use the `scrollbar` role to inform assistive technologies that a UI control is an interactive scrollbar. 

An element with the `scrollbar` role is a graphical object that controls the scrolling of content within a viewing area; it is the ARIA role which indicates an element is a scroll bar. The HTML element that is most similar is the `range` {{HTMLElement('input')}} type, [`<input type="range">`](/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/input/range).

The `scrollbar` element has two required attributes: [`aria-controls`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-controls) and [`aria-valuenow`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuenow). The `aria-controls` attribute references the {{HTMLattrxref('id')}} of the scrollable area it controls. The `aria-valuenow` property defines the current value of the scrollbar. 

> While the `aria-valuenow` is always required, the [`aria-valuemin`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuemin) and [`aria-valuemax`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuemax) properties only need to be set for the scrollbar role when the `scrollbar`'s minimum value is not 0 or the maximum value is not 100. The value of `aria-valuenow` must alway be between the minimum and maximum values, inclusive, or between 0 and 100 inclusive if the minimum and maximum values default to 0 and 100 respectively. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the `aria-valuenow` is always required, the [`aria-valuemin`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuemin) and [`aria-valuemax`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuemax) properties only need to be set for the scrollbar role when the `scrollbar`'s minimum value is not 0 or the maximum value is not 100. The value of `aria-valuenow` must always be between the minimum and maximum inclusive values, or between `0` and `100` inclusive if the minimum and maximum values default to `0` and `100` respectively. `aria-valuenow` communicates how close the viewport is to the bottom of the document. Think of it like a progress bar, where the start of the document is the minimum value and the end of the document is the maximum value.
```

> **Note:** Assistive technologies generally render the value of `aria-valuenow` as a percent of a range between the value of `aria-valuemin` and `aria-valuemax`, unless [`aria-valuetext`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuetext) is set. It is recommended to set the values for `aria-valuemin`, `aria-valuema`x, and `aria-valuenow` in a manner that is appropriate for this calculation.

> Like a native scroll bar, users interact with `scrollbar` elements directly or indirectly using a mouse, touchpad, or keyboard.  `Scrollbar` role implementations must replicate the user interactions of native scroll bars. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Like a native scroll bar, users interact with `scrollbar` elements directly or indirectly using mouse, touchpad, keyboard, and voice input. `scrollbar` role implementations must also accommodate all these interaction methods.
```

When using a mouse, the user must be able to activate the `scrollbar` by clicking the scroll arrows at either end of the scroll bar, if present, clicking an empty portion of the scroll track, as well as clicking and dragging the scroll thumb. 

Keyboard scrolling must also be supported. When focus is within the viewport controlled by a `scrollbar`, the <kbd>Up Arrow</kbd> and <kbd>Down Arrow</kbd> (or <kbd>Left Arrow</kbd> and <kbd>Right Arrow</kbd> for a horizontal scroll bar)  should move the scroll bar thumb proportionally. Additionally, the <kbd>Page Up</kbd>, <kbd>Page Down</kbd>, <kbd>Space</kbd>, and <kbd>Shift + Space</kbd> keys must move the content and the scroll thumb the height (or width) of the viewport for each key press until the bottom or top (or left or right) of the content is in view. 

JavaScript must be used to translate the `scrollbar` action into scrolling commands, providing the user with feedback by:

>   1. visually updating the `scrollbar` element, 
>   2. scrolling the viewport's content, and 
>   3. updating the [`aria-valuenow`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuenow) property value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  1. Visually updating the `scrollbar` element, 
  2. Scrolling the viewport's content, and 
  3. Updating the [`aria-valuenow`](/en-US/docs/Web/Accessibility/ARIA/Attributes/aria-valuenow) property value.
```

- <kbd>Page Down</kbd> and  <kbd>Space</kbd>
  - : The content in the viewport moves down the height of one viewport with the thumb moving down the scroll bar slider proportionally, until the bottom of the content and scrollbar are reached.the bottom or top of the content is in view. 

## Examples

The following is an example of a word likely being too long for a parent container. 

```html
<span id="pi-label">Pi</div>
<div id="pi">
3.1415926535897932384626433832795028841971693993751058209749445923078164062862089986280348253421170679
</div>
<div
  role="scrollbar"
  aria-labelledby="pi-label"
  aria-controls="pi"
  aria-orientation="horizontal"
  aria-valuenow="0"
  aria-valuemin="0"
  aria-valuemax="100">
  <div id="thumb"></div>
</div>
```

When using the ARIA roles instead of native UI features, CSS must be used to style the scrollbar and thumb and JavaScript must be used to handle all keyboard and pointer events.

CSS could have been used to ensure the overflowing value of PI had a native scrollbar:

```html
<h3>Pi</h3>

> <p class="pi">

Reviewer: Can we include the other info we'd need to make this fully accessible? Here's [some background](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-use-the-tabindex-attribute/#scrollable-overflow-containers).
